README.md, before:

# MediMeet - Full Stack Doctor Appointment Platform

A comprehensive healthcare platform built with Next.js that connects patients with verified doctors through secure video consultations. Features include appointment booking, credit-based payment system, admin dashboard, and real-time video calls.

## 🚀 Features

### For Patients

- *User Registration & Authentication* - Secure signup/login with Clerk
- *Doctor Discovery* - Browse doctors by specialty with detailed profiles
- *Appointment Booking* - Schedule consultations with available time slots
- *Video Consultations* - High-quality video calls powered by Vonage
- *Credit System* - Flexible subscription-based payment model
- *Appointment Management* - View, reschedule, and cancel appointments

### For Doctors

- *Professional Profiles* - Showcase expertise and credentials
- *Availability Management* - Set and update consultation hours
- *Patient Consultations* - Conduct video appointments with patients
- *Earnings Dashboard* - Track income and request payouts
- *Medical Notes* - Add consultation notes and patient records
- *Verification System* - Admin-approved doctor verification

### For Administrators

- *Doctor Verification* - Review and approve doctor applications
- *User Management* - Manage patients and doctors
- *Payout Processing* - Handle doctor payment requests
- *Platform Analytics* - Monitor platform usage and performance

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- *Frontend*: Next.js 15, React 19, Tailwind CSS
- *Backend*: Next.js API Routes, Server Actions
- *Database*: PostgreSQL with Prisma ORM
- *Authentication*: Clerk
- *Payments*: Clerk Billing (Stripe integration)
- *Video Calls*: Vonage Video API
- *UI Components*: Shadcn/ui, Radix UI
- *Styling*: Tailwind CSS with custom design system
- *Deployment*: Vercel (recommended)

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- Node.js 18+
- npm or yarn
- Git
- PostgreSQL database (or Neon account)

## 🔧 Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository

bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/medimeet.git
cd medimeet


### 2. Install Dependencies

bash
npm install
# or
yarn install


### 3. Environment Variables Setup

Create a .env.local file in the root directory and add the following variables:

env
# Database
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/medimeet"

# Clerk Authentication
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_test_your_key_here
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=sk_test_your_key_here
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_IN_URL=/sign-in
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_UP_URL=/sign-up

# Vonage Video API
NEXT_PUBLIC_VONAGE_APPLICATION_ID=your_vonage_app_id
VONAGE_PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
your_vonage_private_key_here
-----END PRIVATE KEY-----"


### 4. Database Setup

#### Option A: Using Neon (Recommended)

1. Create a free account at [Neon](https://neon.tech)
2. Create a new project and database
3. Copy the connection string to your .env.local

#### Option B: Local PostgreSQL

1. Install PostgreSQL locally
2. Create a new database named medimeet
3. Update the DATABASE_URL with your local credentials

### 5. Run Database Migrations

bash
npx prisma migrate dev


### 6. Generate Prisma Client

bash
npx prisma generate


### 7. Start the Development Server

bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev


Visit http://localhost:3000 to see the application running.

## 🔑 Third-Party Service Setup

### Clerk Authentication Setup

1. Create a free account at [Clerk](https://clerk.com)
2. Create a new application
3. Configure the following settings:
   - *Sign-in options*: Email and password
   - *Social providers*: Optional (Google, GitHub, etc.)
   - *User profile*: Enable name and profile image
4. Copy the API keys to your .env.local

### Vonage Video API Setup

1. Create an account at [Vonage](https://www.vonage.com/communications-apis/)
2. Create a new Video API application
3. Download the private key file
4. Copy the Application ID and private key to your .env.local

### Clerk Billing Setup (Optional)

1. In your Clerk dashboard, navigate to Billing
2. Create subscription plans:
   - *Free Plan*: 0 credits, $0/month
   - *Standard Plan*: 10 credits, $19/month
   - *Premium Plan*: 24 credits, $39/month
3. Configure webhooks for subscription events

## 👤 User Roles & Access

### Creating an Admin User

Since there's no built-in admin registration, you need to manually create an admin user:

1. Register a normal account through the application
2. Access your database using Prisma Studio:
   bash
   npx prisma studio
   
3. Navigate to the User model
4. Find your user record and change the role field to ADMIN

Alternatively, use SQL:

sql
UPDATE "User"
SET role = 'ADMIN'
WHERE email = 'your-admin-email@example.com';


### Access Levels

- *Patients*: Can book appointments, manage consultations
- *Doctors*: Can set availability, conduct consultations, manage earnings
- *Admins*: Can verify doctors, manage users, process payouts

## 🏥 Application Workflow

### Patient Journey

1. *Registration* → Sign up and complete patient profile
2. *Browse Doctors* → Search by specialty and view profiles
3. *Book Appointment* → Select time slot and provide consultation details
4. *Video Consultation* → Join secure video call at scheduled time
5. *Follow-up* → Access consultation notes and history

### Doctor Journey

1. *Registration* → Sign up and submit professional credentials
2. *Verification* → Wait for admin approval (1-2 business days)
3. *Set Availability* → Configure consultation hours
4. *Conduct Consultations* → Meet with patients via video
5. *Manage Earnings* → Track income and request payouts

### Admin Workflow

1. *Doctor Verification* → Review credentials and approve/reject applications
2. *User Management* → Monitor platform activity and manage users
3. *Payout Processing* → Approve doctor payment requests

## 💳 Credit System

### How Credits Work

- Each consultation costs *2 credits*
- Credits are purchased through subscription plans
- Credits never expire
- Unused credits roll over monthly

### Pricing Structure

- *Patient pays*: $10 per credit ($20 per consultation)
- *Doctor earns*: $8 per credit ($16 per consultation)
- *Platform fee*: $2 per credit ($4 per consultation)

## 🎥 Video Consultation Features

- *HD Video Quality* - Powered by Vonage Video API
- *Screen Sharing* - Share documents during consultations
- *Recording* - Optional session recording (with consent)
- *Mobile Support* - Works on all devices
- *Security* - End-to-end encrypted communications

## 📱 Responsive Design

The application is fully responsive and works seamlessly across:

- *Desktop* - Full-featured experience
- *Tablet* - Optimized touch interface
- *Mobile* - Native app-like experience

## 🔒 Security Features

- *Authentication* - Secure login with Clerk
- *Data Encryption* - All sensitive data encrypted
- *HIPAA Compliance* - Healthcare data protection
- *Video Security* - Encrypted video communications
- *Role-based Access* - Granular permission system

## 🚀 Deployment

### Deploy to Vercel (Recommended)

1. Push your code to GitHub
2. Connect your repository to [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
3. Add environment variables in Vercel dashboard
4. Deploy automatically on every push

### Deploy to Other Platforms

The application can be deployed to any platform that supports Next.js:

- *Netlify*
- *Railway*
- *DigitalOcean App Platform*
- *AWS Amplify*

## 📊 Database Schema

### Key Models

prisma
model User {
  id                String    @id @default(uuid())
  clerkUserId       String    @unique
  email             String    @unique
  name              String?
  role              UserRole  @default(UNASSIGNED)
  credits           Int       @default(2)
  // ... other fields
}

model Appointment {
  id                String   @id @default(uuid())
  patientId         String
  doctorId          String
  startTime         DateTime
  endTime           DateTime
  status            AppointmentStatus @default(SCHEDULED)
  // ... other fields
}

model Availability {
  id        String   @id @default(uuid())
  doctorId  String
  startTime DateTime
  endTime   DateTime
  status    SlotStatus @default(AVAILABLE)
}


## 🛠 Development Commands

bash
# Start development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm start

# Run linting
npm run lint

# Database commands
npx prisma studio          # Open database browser
npx prisma migrate dev      # Run migrations
npx prisma generate         # Generate Prisma client
npx prisma db push          # Push schema changes


## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

*Database Connection Issues*

bash
# Reset database
npx prisma migrate reset
npx prisma db push


*Clerk Authentication Issues*

- Verify API keys in .env.local
- Check Clerk dashboard configuration
- Ensure redirect URLs are correct

*Video Call Issues*

- Verify Vonage credentials
- Check browser permissions for camera/microphone
- Ensure HTTPS in production

*Build Errors*

bash
# Clear Next.js cache
rm -rf .next
npm run build


## 📚 API Documentation

### Key Endpoints

- POST /api/appointments - Create appointment
- GET /api/doctors - List doctors
- POST /api/video/token - Generate video token
- GET /api/admin/users - Admin user management

### Server Actions

- bookAppointment() - Book new appointment
- cancelAppointment() - Cancel appointment
- setAvailabilitySlots() - Set doctor availability
- updateDoctorStatus() - Admin doctor verification

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature)
3. Commit your changes (git commit -m 'Add amazing feature')
4. Push to the branch (git push origin feature/amazing-feature)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - React framework
- [Clerk](https://clerk.com/) - Authentication platform
- [Vonage](https://www.vonage.com/) - Video API
- [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) - Database ORM
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) - CSS framework
- [Shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) - UI components

Commit message:

Update README with academic context section

README.md, after:

# MediMeet - Full Stack Doctor Appointment Platform

A comprehensive healthcare platform built with Next.js that connects patients with verified doctors through secure video consultations. Features include appointment booking, credit-based payment system, admin dashboard, and real-time video calls.

## 🎓 Academic Context

This project was developed as part of the final year BCA (Bachelor of Computer Applications) academic curriculum. It demonstrates the practical implementation of full-stack development, cloud deployment, third-party API integration, and real-time communication features, fulfilling the academic requirements for the major project submission.

## 🚀 Features

### For Patients

- *User Registration & Authentication* - Secure signup/login with Clerk
- *Doctor Discovery* - Browse doctors by specialty with detailed profiles
- *Appointment Booking* - Schedule consultations with available time slots
- *Video Consultations* - High-quality video calls powered by Vonage
- *Credit System* - Flexible subscription-based payment model
- *Appointment Management* - View, reschedule, and cancel appointments

### For Doctors

- *Professional Profiles* - Showcase expertise and credentials
- *Availability Management* - Set and update consultation hours
- *Patient Consultations* - Conduct video appointments with patients
- *Earnings Dashboard* - Track income and request payouts
- *Medical Notes* - Add consultation notes and patient records
- *Verification System* - Admin-approved doctor verification

### For Administrators

- *Doctor Verification* - Review and approve doctor applications
- *User Management* - Manage patients and doctors
- *Payout Processing* - Handle doctor payment requests
- *Platform Analytics* - Monitor platform usage and performance

## 🛠 Tech Stack

- *Frontend*: Next.js 15, React 19, Tailwind CSS
- *Backend*: Next.js API Routes, Server Actions
- *Database*: PostgreSQL with Prisma ORM
- *Authentication*: Clerk
- *Payments*: Clerk Billing (Stripe integration)
- *Video Calls*: Vonage Video API
- *UI Components*: Shadcn/ui, Radix UI
- *Styling*: Tailwind CSS with custom design system
- *Deployment*: Vercel (recommended)

## 📋 Prerequisites

Before you begin, ensure you have the following installed:

- Node.js 18+
- npm or yarn
- Git
- PostgreSQL database (or Neon account)

## 🔧 Installation & Setup

### 1. Clone the Repository

bash
git clone https://github.com/your-username/medimeet.git
cd medimeet


### 2. Install Dependencies

bash
npm install
# or
yarn install


### 3. Environment Variables Setup

Create a .env.local file in the root directory and add the following variables:

env
# Database
DATABASE_URL="postgresql://username:password@localhost:5432/medimeet"

# Clerk Authentication
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_PUBLISHABLE_KEY=pk_test_your_key_here
CLERK_SECRET_KEY=sk_test_your_key_here
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_IN_URL=/sign-in
NEXT_PUBLIC_CLERK_SIGN_UP_URL=/sign-up

# Vonage Video API
NEXT_PUBLIC_VONAGE_APPLICATION_ID=your_vonage_app_id
VONAGE_PRIVATE_KEY="-----BEGIN PRIVATE KEY-----
your_vonage_private_key_here
-----END PRIVATE KEY-----"


### 4. Database Setup

#### Option A: Using Neon (Recommended)

1. Create a free account at [Neon](https://neon.tech)
2. Create a new project and database
3. Copy the connection string to your .env.local

#### Option B: Local PostgreSQL

1. Install PostgreSQL locally
2. Create a new database named medimeet
3. Update the DATABASE_URL with your local credentials

### 5. Run Database Migrations

bash
npx prisma migrate dev


### 6. Generate Prisma Client

bash
npx prisma generate


### 7. Start the Development Server

bash
npm run dev
# or
yarn dev


Visit http://localhost:3000 to see the application running.

## 🔑 Third-Party Service Setup

### Clerk Authentication Setup

1. Create a free account at [Clerk](https://clerk.com)
2. Create a new application
3. Configure the following settings:
   - *Sign-in options*: Email and password
   - *Social providers*: Optional (Google, GitHub, etc.)
   - *User profile*: Enable name and profile image
4. Copy the API keys to your .env.local

### Vonage Video API Setup

1. Create an account at [Vonage](https://www.vonage.com/communications-apis/)
2. Create a new Video API application
3. Download the private key file
4. Copy the Application ID and private key to your .env.local

### Clerk Billing Setup (Optional)

1. In your Clerk dashboard, navigate to Billing
2. Create subscription plans:
   - *Free Plan*: 0 credits, $0/month
   - *Standard Plan*: 10 credits, $19/month
   - *Premium Plan*: 24 credits, $39/month
3. Configure webhooks for subscription events

## 👤 User Roles & Access

### Creating an Admin User

Since there's no built-in admin registration, you need to manually create an admin user:

1. Register a normal account through the application
2. Access your database using Prisma Studio:
   bash
   npx prisma studio
   
3. Navigate to the User model
4. Find your user record and change the role field to ADMIN

Alternatively, use SQL:

sql
UPDATE "User"
SET role = 'ADMIN'
WHERE email = 'your-admin-email@example.com';


### Access Levels

- *Patients*: Can book appointments, manage consultations
- *Doctors*: Can set availability, conduct consultations, manage earnings
- *Admins*: Can verify doctors, manage users, process payouts

## 🏥 Application Workflow

### Patient Journey

1. *Registration* → Sign up and complete patient profile
2. *Browse Doctors* → Search by specialty and view profiles
3. *Book Appointment* → Select time slot and provide consultation details
4. *Video Consultation* → Join secure video call at scheduled time
5. *Follow-up* → Access consultation notes and history

### Doctor Journey

1. *Registration* → Sign up and submit professional credentials
2. *Verification* → Wait for admin approval (1-2 business days)
3. *Set Availability* → Configure consultation hours
4. *Conduct Consultations* → Meet with patients via video
5. *Manage Earnings* → Track income and request payouts

### Admin Workflow

1. *Doctor Verification* → Review credentials and approve/reject applications
2. *User Management* → Monitor platform activity and manage users
3. *Payout Processing* → Approve doctor payment requests

## 💳 Credit System

### How Credits Work

- Each consultation costs *2 credits*
- Credits are purchased through subscription plans
- Credits never expire
- Unused credits roll over monthly

### Pricing Structure

- *Patient pays*: $10 per credit ($20 per consultation)
- *Doctor earns*: $8 per credit ($16 per consultation)
- *Platform fee*: $2 per credit ($4 per consultation)

## 🎥 Video Consultation Features

- *HD Video Quality* - Powered by Vonage Video API
- *Screen Sharing* - Share documents during consultations
- *Recording* - Optional session recording (with consent)
- *Mobile Support* - Works on all devices
- *Security* - End-to-end encrypted communications

## 📱 Responsive Design

The application is fully responsive and works seamlessly across:

- *Desktop* - Full-featured experience
- *Tablet* - Optimized touch interface
- *Mobile* - Native app-like experience

## 🔒 Security Features

- *Authentication* - Secure login with Clerk
- *Data Encryption* - All sensitive data encrypted
- *HIPAA Compliance* - Healthcare data protection
- *Video Security* - Encrypted video communications
- *Role-based Access* - Granular permission system

## 🚀 Deployment

### Deploy to Vercel (Recommended)

1. Push your code to GitHub
2. Connect your repository to [Vercel](https://vercel.com)
3. Add environment variables in Vercel dashboard
4. Deploy automatically on every push

### Deploy to Other Platforms

The application can be deployed to any platform that supports Next.js:

- *Netlify*
- *Railway*
- *DigitalOcean App Platform*
- *AWS Amplify*

## 📊 Database Schema

### Key Models

prisma
model User {
  id                String    @id @default(uuid())
  clerkUserId       String    @unique
  email             String    @unique
  name              String?
  role              UserRole  @default(UNASSIGNED)
  credits           Int       @default(2)
  // ... other fields
}

model Appointment {
  id                String   @id @default(uuid())
  patientId         String
  doctorId          String
  startTime         DateTime
  endTime           DateTime
  status            AppointmentStatus @default(SCHEDULED)
  // ... other fields
}

model Availability {
  id        String   @id @default(uuid())
  doctorId  String
  startTime DateTime
  endTime   DateTime
  status    SlotStatus @default(AVAILABLE)
}


## 🛠 Development Commands

bash
# Start development server
npm run dev

# Build for production
npm run build

# Start production server
npm start

# Run linting
npm run lint

# Database commands
npx prisma studio          # Open database browser
npx prisma migrate dev      # Run migrations
npx prisma generate         # Generate Prisma client
npx prisma db push          # Push schema changes


## 🐛 Troubleshooting

### Common Issues

*Database Connection Issues*

bash
# Reset database
npx prisma migrate reset
npx prisma db push


*Clerk Authentication Issues*

- Verify API keys in .env.local
- Check Clerk dashboard configuration
- Ensure redirect URLs are correct

*Video Call Issues*

- Verify Vonage credentials
- Check browser permissions for camera/microphone
- Ensure HTTPS in production

*Build Errors*

bash
# Clear Next.js cache
rm -rf .next
npm run build


## 📚 API Documentation

### Key Endpoints

- POST /api/appointments - Create appointment
- GET /api/doctors - List doctors
- POST /api/video/token - Generate video token
- GET /api/admin/users - Admin user management

### Server Actions

- bookAppointment() - Book new appointment
- cancelAppointment() - Cancel appointment
- setAvailabilitySlots() - Set doctor availability
- updateDoctorStatus() - Admin doctor verification

## 🤝 Contributing

1. Fork the repository
2. Create a feature branch (git checkout -b feature/amazing-feature)
3. Commit your changes (git commit -m 'Add amazing feature')
4. Push to the branch (git push origin feature/amazing-feature)
5. Open a Pull Request

## 🙏 Acknowledgments

- [Next.js](https://nextjs.org/) - React framework
- [Clerk](https://clerk.com/) - Authentication platform
- [Vonage](https://www.vonage.com/) - Video API
- [Prisma](https://www.prisma.io/) - Database ORM
- [Tailwind CSS](https://tailwindcss.com/) - CSS framework
- [Shadcn/ui](https://ui.shadcn.com/) - UI components
